Named entity recognition

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

Named entity recognition (NER) (also known as entity identification (EI)) is a
subtask of information extraction that seeks to locate and classify atomic
elements in text into predefined categories such as the names of persons,
organizations, locations, expressions of times, quantities, monetary values,
percentages, etc.

For example, a NER system producing MUC-style output might tag the sentence,

    Jim bought 300 shares of Acme Corp. in 2006.
    <ENAMEX TYPE="PERSON">Jim</ENAMEX> bought <NUMEX TYPE="QUANTITY">300</
    NUMEX> shares of <ENAMEX TYPE="ORGANIZATION">Acme Corp.</ENAMEX> in <TIMEX
    TYPE="DATE">2006</TIMEX>.

NER systems have been created that use linguistic grammar-based techniques as
well as statistical models. Hand-crafted grammar-based systems typically obtain
better results, but at the cost of months of work by experienced linguists.
Statistical NER systems typically require a large amount manually annotated
training data, but can be ported to other languages, domains or genres of text
much more rapidly and require less work overall.

Since about 1998, there has been a great deal of interest in entity
identification in the molecular biology, bioinformatics, and medical natural
language processing communities. The most common entity of interest in that
domain has been names of genes and gene products.

Contents

  • 1 Named entity types
  • 2 Evaluation
  • 3 External links
      □ 3.1 Evaluation forums
      □ 3.2 Datasets and hierarchies
      □ 3.3 Software

[edit] Named entity types

In the expression named entity, the word named restricts the task to those
entities for which one or many rigid designators, as defined by Kripke, stands
for the referent. For instance, the automotive company created by Henry Ford in
1903 is referred to as Ford or Ford Motor Company. Rigid designators include
proper names as well as certain natural kind terms like biological species and
substances.

There is a general agreement to include temporal expressions and some numerical
expressions such as money and measures in named entities. While some instances
of these types are good examples of rigid designators (e.g., the year 2001)
there are also many invalid ones (e.g., I take my vacations in “June”). In the
first case, the year 2001 refers to the 2001st year of the Gregorian calendar.
In the second case, the month June may refer to the month of an undefined year
(past June, next June, June 2020, etc.). It is arguable that the named entity
definition is loosened in such cases for practical reasons.

At least two hierarchies of named entity types have been proposed in the
literature. BBN categories [1], proposed in 2002, is used for Question
answering and consists of 29 types and 64 subtypes. Sekine's extended hierarchy
[2], also proposed in 2002, is made of 200 subtypes.

[edit] Evaluation

Benchmarking and evaluations have been performed in the Message Understanding
Conferences (MUC) organized by DARPA, International Conference on Language
Resources and Evaluation (LREC), Computational Natural Language Learning (CoNLL
) workshops, Automatic Content Extraction (ACE) organized by NIST, the
Multilingual Entity Task Conference (MET), Information Retrieval and Extraction
Exercise (IREX) and in HAREM (Portuguese language only).

[edit] External links

[edit] Evaluation forums

  • MUC
  • LREC
  • CoNLL
  • ACE
  • MET
  • IREX
  • HAREM

[edit] Datasets and hierarchies

  • Tagged datasets for named entity recognition tasks
  • BBN named entity type hierarchy
  • Sekine's extended named entity hierarchy

[edit] Software

  • LingPipe Java Natural Language Processing software that includes a
    trainable named-entity extraction framework with first-best, n-best and
    confidence-ranked-by-entity output. Models available for various languages
    and genres. See the online demos.
  • Named Entity Tagger Yet another demo system for named entity tagging.
    Allows users to enter their own text.
  • Balie Baseline implementation of named entity recognition.
  • ANNIE Information extraction package (a GATE component) with NER
    capabilities.
  • MinorThird Collection of Java classes for storing text, annotating text,
    and learning to extract entities and categorize text.
  • ABNER Biomedical named entity recognizer.
  • POSBIOTM/W NER client tool that enables users to automatically annotate
    biomedical-related entities.
  • ISYS An enterprise search product which includes automatic entity
    recognition
  • ESpotter A domain and user adaptation approach for named entity recognition
    on the Web.
  • FreeLing An open source language analysis tool suite. See the online demo.
  • ClearForest Commercial natural language processing toolkit that includes
    NER. See the online demo. (possibly using technology from Inxight, a
    company spawned from Xerox PARC)
  • PolyAnalyst Commercial natural language processing suite with entity
    extraction tools
  • SRA NetOwl Commercial and state-of-the-art recognizer in its class (rule
    and statistical based) covering many scripts and including highly inflected
    languages such as Arabic.

Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Named_entity_recognition"

Categories: Natural language processing | Computational linguistics

Views

  • Article
  • Discussion
  • Edit this page
  • History

Personal tools

  • Sign in / create account

 

Navigation

  • Main page
  • Community portal
  • Featured content
  • Current events
  • Recent changes
  • Random article
  • Help
  • Contact Wikipedia
  • Donations

Search

[                    ] [Go]  [Search]
Toolbox

  • What links here
  • Related changes
  • Upload file
  • Special pages
  • Printable version
  • Permanent link
  • Cite this article

Powered by MediaWiki
Wikimedia Foundation

  • This page was last modified 01:31, 19 December 2006.
  • All text is available under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License
    . (See Copyrights for details.)
    Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a
    US-registered 501(c)(3) tax-deductible nonprofit charity.
  • Privacy policy
  • About Wikipedia
  • Disclaimers

